[NAGAHIRO]
You see, originally...
...this painting
depicted the entirety
of Yubiwa Academy's student body
as they sat for an assembly.
However...
Every last one of
those painted students
was taken from their painted
seats in a mass kidnapping
from a massive painting,
fulfilling a threat
made seven years ago
by the artist, Ms. Towai.
[MAYUMI]
In other words,
Ms. Towai removed
the student body
by replacing the painting
with one she made of a
completely empty auditorium,
devoid of any students at all.
You'd think the school
would file criminal charges,
considering she committed
such a large-scale theft.
As much as they may
have wanted to,
Yubiwa Academy had a good reason
to not file criminal
charges against Ms. Towai.
The colossal kidnapping
in question
was an impossible crime,
you see.
An impossible crime...
Really, now...
I mean, isn't that a
bit of an exaggeration?
After all, how
impossible would it be
to simply switch one
painting for another?
Simply?
Simply...?
This painting?
I see, Sakiguchi.
The paintings are a lot bigger
than the auditorium entrance.
So how in the world
did Ms. Towai manage
to switch out the paintings?
Consider, for instance,
the ship in a bottle.
The only way to get
the ship in there
would be to put pieces of it
in the bottle one-by-one
and build it once it's inside.
Ms. Towai must have
done the same thing
on a larger scale
when she painted
The Auditorium
in the Auditorium.
She started her work
by bringing the materials
into the auditorium
piece-by-piece
and creating the canvas there.
But what that
doesn't explain...
...was how she switched
the other painting out...
Moving the original
would be a crime,
so she couldn't let
anyone see her remove it.
But that's impossible.
An impossible crime.
Marvelously played,
my dear Nagahiro.
Who knew you had such a
beautiful trick up your sleeve!
I bet we could easily
remove all of this guesswork
if we just get the story
straight from Ms. Towai.
Now, what kind of
detectives would we be
if we were to get
the details of the crime
from the criminal herself?
The perpetrator's
confession does not count
as evidence in my opinion.
Of course, I'd be happy
to hear Lady Towai's tale
as long as it were to confirm
that our own
suspicions were correct.
Nagahiro.
Is it proper to assume
that you already have
Lady Towai's whereabouts
under investigation?
How soon can you find her?
I believe we'll have her
location by tomorrow morning.
[MANABU]
Excellent.
Well, then! Let's all reconvene
here early tomorrow morning.
Until then, I expect everyone
to do their best
in rooting out the truth.
That's your homework!
[MAYUMI] The gentlemanly
Mr. Delinquent and Mr. Bare-Legs
tried to walk me
home after school
like they did the day before...
...but I gave those
pretty boys the slip.
[LAI]
I'll be waiting for you there.
You don't have to come
if you don't want to.
The choice is yours.
[LAI chuckles]
To be perfectly frank,
there's something
I'd be grateful
for you to return to me,
Miss Dojima.
Now, do you remember
the money I dropped
that you were kind
enough to pick up?
It can tie me to activities I'd
rather have left in the dark.
I'm sure you can see
why I'd want it back.
[MAYUMI]
Sounded reasonable enough...
Even so, I was certain it
was merely an excuse
to see me in person.
At the same time,
this was an excuse for me
to see him in person.
The thing is,
I had a burning question
that only he could answer.
My overwhelming
eyesight earned me
my Pretty Boy name,
Mayumi the Seer.
And it's thanks to my vision
that I witnessed Fudatsuki's
cheating stagehand.
But how on earth did
Fudatsuki see the stagehand?
How did he know what gestures
his stagehand was making?
Which brings me
to the real question:
Does Lai Fudatsuki have
the same eyesight I have?
I had to know.
That's why
I couldn't let anything
get in the way of our meeting,
not even my escorts.
There's nothing
extraordinary about my eyesight.
It's quite ordinary.
I'm sorry I failed to live up
to your expectations.
These contacts make
invisible clothes visible.
Ohhh... So that's how it's done.
[MAYUMI] Mr. Delinquent
was right on the money.
It was pretty unlikely
I'd ever meet someone else
with eyesight like mine.
I am a rare breed.
[LAI] I'm sorry I failed
to live up to your expectations.
No, it's fine.
It's not as if I had really high
expectations to begin with.
By the way, I hope the advice
I provided proved useful.
Huh?
Well, it was useful,
but not put to good use.
It helped me feel less awkward.
So, thank you.
Hypothetically speaking...
Suppose you found,
oh, let's say,
the reproductions
of 33 classic paintings
that happened to be
missing their main subjects
in the attic of
your school's art room.
Any idea why they
would even exist?
And so, ever so naturally
and nonchalantly...
Well, that's unfortunate.
But it does go to show...
I'm not made out to be
a detective after all.
I'd've never guessed that
the strange tale you shared
would turn into the story
of a mass kidnapping overnight.
Now that's what I call
a real second act twist!
Well, then. If that's the
direction it's going to go,
then the solution
may end up being
"what is essential
is invisible to the eye."
[MAYUMI] With all I can
see that's inessential,
and very little invisible to me,
am I left with less of the
important things in life
than anyone else?
This envelope is quite cute.
Thank you for returning
the money you found.
I was wondering,
are you going around
and collecting all the cash
you handed out personally?
Is this part of your job?
Let's just say I'm helping
with some after-sales service.
And in your case,
I simply thought it
would be a good idea
to retrieve the bills
from you personally.
And why is that?
[LAI]
Why do you think, Ms. Dojima?
[MAYUMI] The money wasn't
the real reason to see me.
There's something
else you had in mind
when you arranged this meeting.
A true agenda.
[LAI]
Incorrect.
[MAYUMI]
Wait...
You really don't
have another agenda?
[LAI]
I really don't.
[MAYUMI]
Really?
[LAI]
Really.
[MAYUMI]
Not one?
Not even one.
I set up this little rendezvous
because I wanted to see you.
There's simply no other reason.
[MAYUMI]
If you really wanted to see me,
you could have just ambushed me
just like you did before.
You didn't have to go through
all this trouble for us to meet.
Oh, it's no trouble.
This is what I wanted.
[MAYUMI]
Huh?
For investors like me,
making good
connections with those
who hold valuable
insight like yourself
is simply part
of what I must do.
So I hope you'll do me the honor
of meeting with me like
this every now and again.
Well, maybe if I feel like it...
[LAI]
That's fine.
When you're ready.
Frankly speaking,
you never should have agreed
to see me like this in
the first place, you know.
[MAYUMI gasps]
[LAI] You mean it
didn't occur to you?
How the Pretty Boy Detective
Club may feel betrayed
when they find out you decided
to pay the rival school's
top brass a visit?
But maybe you've grown tired
of having to play nice
with those friends of yours...
...and would much
rather speak with an enemy
whom you wouldn't
have to be so considerate of.
You do realize that...
...we aren't the
only ones around here
that are after you and
those wonderful eyes of yours.
[MAYUMI] He was certainly
right about that.
However...
Just to be perfectly clear,
I never have to "play nice"
with any of my friends.
In fact, they would hate that.
I don't have to be
careful around friends.
The last thing they'd
want is for me to act
like I'm walking on
eggshells around them.
More than that,
friends don't have
to be careful around me.
I go when I want to go.
I run when I want to run.
I say what I want to say
and see the people
I want to see...
That is to say...
It's what I'd always dreamed of.
I have no problem telling
them what I've seen.
What I'm trying to say is,
I can be myself around them
more than anyone else.
[LAI] Excuse me
for saying this, but
if you want friends that you
don't have to be careful around,
perhaps you'll
consider allowing us
to be your friends
as well, Ms. Dojima.
Huh?
If it's what you wish,
you may stop by our school
whenever you so desire.
Me and my companions in the
Heartbreaker Street Irregulars
are ready to welcome you
with open arms
and put your eyes to good use.
[MAYUMI] Sorry to interrupt
you while your sleuthing...
...but would you
mind escorting me home?
Wait, you mean you
noticed I was back here?
No, actually,
I had a sneaking suspicion.
And Mr. Bare-Legs?
[MICHIRU]
He headed over to your place.
[MAYUMI]
Okay, then.
Can you give him a call
and let him know
that his beloved friend
is safe and sound?
[MICHIRU]
You're real funny.
Just for that, I'm gonna
cook you a dish to die for.
A real killer meal.
Uh...
A real harsh punishment.
[MICHIRU]
So you and the enemy boss.
What was that about?
I had a hard time
hearing that last part...
[MAYUMI]
It's a secret.
[MAYUMI] I had to sit on
my knees getting scolded
for three straight hours
when I got home.
Which means
I had no time to work
on the homework that
our leader gave us.
So the next day,
I had to go to school
with no plan whatsoever.
Oh, well.
I'm sure they don't expect much
from their newest club member.
It's my first real
assignment, after all.
Ahh, there you are!
Our Young Dojima
has finally arrived!
And now that you're here,
you can tell us your theory!
[MAYUMI]
They expect a lot of me.
All right, then, it sounds like
we should have
Ms. Dojima go first today.
[MAYUMI]
Mmm...
If you say so.
My dear gentlemen.
Please listen closely.
Through sound reasoning
and logical deduction,
I have uncovered the truth!
An abduction occurred
seven years ago.
And this is how!
Well? Something
wrong, Young Dojima?
You just stopped right
as you were about to explain
what really happened.
Actually, Dojima,
I just realized something.
You never actually looked
at that giant painting
with your infamous
eyes, did you?
Come now, Mayumi Dojima!
You can only keep us in
suspense for so long, you know!
Well, hurry and tell us already!
I...
What theory were you and
Fudatsuki able to come up with
when you put
your heads together?
[gasps]
You mean you were aware of
it this whole time, Leader?
Of course!
I wouldn't be much
of a detective
if I didn't know
that Mayumi Dojima
had beautifully reconciled
with our former enemy!
[MAYUMI]
Beautifully reconciled, huh?
Precisely because it
was nothing like that
is why I had to make it
sound like it really was.
I had to turn my actions
into something beautiful.
Which means the thing
they needed from me
right now was neither
an apology nor my concern.
A theory.
They needed
a theory as a member
of the Pretty Boy
Detective Club,
one that would match
our leader's expectations.
To be pretty, to be a boy,
to be a detective...
And...
...to be a team.
So, um...
Does anyone here know
how to put on contacts?
I have these.
See?
Finally, I saw
straight through...
...to the truth.
Instead of heightening
my vision even further,
the contacts attenuated it,
taking my eyesight
that was too good
and replacing it with eyesight
that was just right.
No way... The painting was never
swapped out in the first place.
--[HYOTA] Hm?
--[MICHIRU] Hm?
[MAYUMI]
She painted over it completely.
This is the original.
Painted over it...
Are you sure, Miss Dojima?
This is quite a large painting.
To repaint such
a massive canvas
would be a difficult feat.
A time consuming one, at that.
If a single person had
to do it on their own...
[MAYUMI]
But what if she wasn't alone?
What if that was the motive
behind the mass
kidnapping all along?
To pull off a
criminally huge heist
while coordinating
with a bunch of people.
[NAGAHIRO]
I don't understand.
Who are you referring
to as "a bunch of people"?
[MAYUMI] Her students
here at Yubiwa Academy.
The very same students that she,
Ms. Kowako Towai, taught as
an art teacher on this campus.
That means the mass kidnapping
that occurred seven years ago
wasn't just theft.
It was, in fact,
Ms. Towai's final lesson.
She treated the repainting
of the canvas like a project,
teaching her students
everything she could
through the experience.
[MAYUMI] The reason Ms. Towai
disappeared seven years ago
and has been missing
ever since might be
because she wanted to take
the blame for the crime.
She wanted to make
sure the students
who worked alongside
her wouldn't be punished.
That was beautiful.
Well... Well, I...
I could be wrong.
I mean, there's no real proof
that anything I said is true.
[KOWAKO]
Every word of it is true.
You must be Ms. Towai.
Indeed, I must.
Kowako Towai at your service.
Former teacher, current
artist extraordinaire...
and as you're all well aware,
infamous kidnapper.
With how much Yubiwa's
staff hates me,
I didn't really want
to show my face around here.
But then I heard
some kids had the nerve
to break into
my erstwhile art room
and use it without my blessing.
And I bet it was you.
Yup! You've caught
us red-handed.
We're the Pretty Boy
Detective Club.
[KOWAKO]
Hmph. Funny name.
So that's one mystery
you can check off,
what about the other one?
Unlike that huge, repainted
canvas in the auditorium,
those paintings I did on my own.
For the solution
to that mystery,
we'll have our resident
artiste answer.
Instead of...
...painting the people
originally there...
...you painted gods instead.
[MAYUMI] Those 33 paintings
were completely devoid
of human figures.
Or, if you looked at it a
different way, you could say...
...that everything but humans
were in those paintings.
No humans.
The paintings Ms. Towai
chose all had people
as part of a scene.
And in essence,
she had asked those people
to exit the locked room
of their canvas.
But what about the paintings
she didn't choose?
None of them were
self-portraits.
No matter how renowned
or how universally
regarded as masterpieces,
she refused
to paint a single one.
Some say that the Mona Lisa
may be a self-portrait
painted by Leonardo Da Vinci.
No matter how unreliable
the rumor may be,
if there was the slightest
chance it were true,
she refused to risk
removing the image
of an artistic genius from
the canvas they called home.
So if she chose to remake
one of those paintings,
she'd be forced
to leave the person in it,
causing the theme of her works
to lose all meaning.
And what was her theme?
It was none other than...
Faith.
That faith was expressed
not by painting artists
as godly creators,
but instead by refusing to paint
anyone who wasn't an artist.
She painted what she wanted
through what she didn't paint.
The likenesses of those
Ms. Towai worshipped as
an artist herself only existed
on the canvas of her heart.
[KOWAKO]
Okay, okay, you can stop.
Enough, already, come on.
I honestly didn't think
you'd give me the right answer.
Who are you, anyway?
[MANABU]
That's Sosaku Yubiwa.
Or Sosaku the Artiste.
[MICHIRU] There's still
one thing I don't get.
Why'd you decide to
hide those 33 paintings
in the crawl space above
your art room seven years ago?
[KOWAKO]
No good reason.
At least, there's
no deep meaning behind it.
I imagined there'd come a day
when that art room
was in use again,
and some kids would
wind up going up there
and have the luck of finding
the paintings I tucked away.
And when they did,
they'd all be like
"What the hell is this?"
Were you the one that
found it, Sosaku Yubiwa?
Actually, that honor
goes to Mayumi Dojima...
Mayumi the Seer.
I see. And who, exactly,
does that make you?
Me? I'm Manabu Sotoin.
Or Manabu the Aesthete.
I'm the president of the
Pretty Boy Detective Club.
I, for one, think it's
great that a teacher
as dedicated as you taught on
our campus seven years ago.
And it's been an honor.
I'm glad I was able to meet you.
So, Ms. Towai...
...about that art room of yours.
As a reward for
solving your mystery,
would you pass it onto us?
The Pretty Boy Detective Club
begs the privilege
to carry your beautiful legacy.
[MAYUMI] And so, the
Pretty Boy Detective Club
gleefully claimed the
Yubiwa Academy art room
as its official headquarters.
I don't get it.
What was your motivation
for painting the ceiling,
Mr. Child Genius?
Oh, really now?
Are you truly
the same Miss Dojima
who recently demonstrated such
masterful powers of deduction?
[MAYUMI]
Huh?
Several days later,
Mr. Child Genius's
ceiling was complete.
The scene he had created
was of the 88 constellations,
a stunning painting
of the heavens.
[laughs]
I'm glad you've taken a
liking to it, Mayumi Dojima!
Your enjoyment is a
fitting reward for Sosaku.
who painted it
for you and you alone!
[MAYUMI]
Just for me?
Well, now that we've
got this gigantic painting
on the ceiling,
I bet even someone
as morose as you
might actually lift
your head every so often.
You mean you really went
through all this trouble for me?
What are you talking about?
We did it together.
We even received clearance
from Ms. Towai to move
forward with the ceiling art.
Ha ha ha!
Until the time comes that
you decide to once again
turn your gaze upon the real
night sky, Mayumi Dojima,
you can admire all the
beautiful stars right here
in the art room to
your heart's content!
Now, then.
If you're done with your tea,
it's time to get
ready for the party!
Let's have a grand celebration
in honor of our
beautiful masterpiece!
[MAYUMI] Some things are so
beautiful they can't be painted.
And that moment where
we all lifted our heads
to see the star-filled
ceiling; the moment
when I felt like I was one
of them for the first time...
...will forever be a moment
I wish could be painted.